Add tutorial doc for VirtualServer configuration with Custom Listener Ports (#4294)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/tutorials/virtual-server-with-custom-listener-ports.md

---

> title: VirtualServer with Custom listener ports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Configuring VirtualServer with custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports
```

> description: |
>   How to configure a VirtualServer with custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports.
> weight: 1800
> doctypes: ["concept"]
> toc: true
> ---
> ## Configuring a VirtualServer with custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports.
> 
> This tutorial outlines how to configure and deploy a VirtualServer resource to with custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: |
  This tutorial explains how to configure and deploy a VirtualServer resource with custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports.
weight: 1800
doctypes: ["concept"]
toc: true
---
## Configuring a VirtualServer with custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports.
```

At a later stage I will personally fix all of the jank meta description duplication (It's related to how the theme works): for the time being I suggest shifting the opening paragraph to the meta description so it only displays once. For a reader it looks like a "clean" opening.

> Previously this was task had to be performed manually as documented in [Customizing NGINX Ingress Controller Ports](/nginx-ingress-controller/tutorials/custom-listen-ports/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This task can be performed manually as documented in ["Customizing NGINX Ingress Controller Ports"](/nginx-ingress-controller/tutorials/custom-listen-ports/): in this tutorial, we will explain how to do so automatically as part of a deployment.
```

Documentation is evergreen: we tend to avoid anything in writing that has any narrative involving the passage of time. Even if this is newer functionality we don't draw attention to that fact outside of release notes and similar changelogs.

> VirtualServer now explicitly defines custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports using the `spec.listener.http` and `spec.listener.https` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VirtualServer can explicitly define custom HTTP and HTTPS listener ports using the `spec.listener.http` and `spec.listener.https` fields.
```

Each field must reference a valid listener defined by in a [GlobalConfiguration](/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/globalconfiguration-resource/) resource.

## Deploy GlobalConfiguration

1. Create a yaml file called `nginx-configuration.yaml` with the below content:
```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1alpha1
kind: GlobalConfiguration
metadata:
  name: nginx-configuration
  namespace: nginx-ingress
spec:
  listeners:
  - name: http-8083
    port: 8083
    protocol: HTTP
  - name: https-8443
    port: 8443
    protocol: HTTP
    ssl: true
```

2. Deploy `nginx-configuration.yaml` file:

> ```console

Reviewer 2: @ADubhlaoich should we be using `shell` or `console` for snippets now?

Reviewer 3: `shell`
